Joel DabankahOwusu
Accra, Ghana PMB KA 184
+233 20-754-4675 Joelws300@gmail.com
WWW: Online Digital Resume
PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY
A detailed oriented and result-driven Accounting professional with experience in Financial Reporting,
Accounting systems, and SAP ERP. Hardworking, reliable, and always striving to achieve set objectives.
Cleverly coordinate the work of team members to maintain sound financial operations.
SKILLS
SAP ERP•
Manage cash flow•
Financial reporting•
Communication Skills•
Time management•
Teamwork•
Microsoft office Suite•
Attentive to details•
Html, CSS,Javascript & ReactJS•
Account Reconciliation•
WORK HISTORY
FINANCE OFFICER| 01/2018 to Current
Swissport Ghana Limited - Accra, Ghana
Prepared monthly reconciliation of bank accounts and took corrective actions on deviations.•
Utilized SAP ERP system to monitor and reconcile accounts, track payment schedules, and generate
financial reports.
•
Collaborated effectively with cross-functional teams to resolve payment discrepancies and ensure
compliance with company policies.
•
Managed and maintained accounts payable functions, ensuring accurate and timely processing of
invoices, expense reports, and vendor payments.
•
Coordinated efficient accounts payable and receivable operations, keeping accounts current and
liabilities paid on time.
•
Reduced company's debtors by 45% in 3 months through thorough and timely credit collection and
excellent customer relations. Results: reduced cost by $3,500 and increased productivity of CFO.
•
Assisted in the preparation of month-end and year-end financial statements, contributing to the
overall accuracy of financial reporting.
•
Minimized and mitigated fraud risks and other potential losses by managing sound security strategies•
Keep track of all payments and expenditures, including purchase orders, invoices, and statement•
Prepared monthly revenue report.•
Ensured timely payment of invoices which helped maintain strong vendor relationships.•
File monthly statutory returns such as VAT, Income Tax (PAYE), Withholding Tax, etc.•
Achievements:•
Reduced Days Sales Outstanding (DSO) by 45% by re-evaluating our collection process, reviewing
client payment terms, and ensuring that customers are constantly notified of their outstanding
invoices and follow up on payments until they are made.
•
Reconciled over 50 customer accounts that have not been worked on for a year.•
Built lasting relationships with all clients and ensured there were systems and resources in place to
deal with any of their queries in less than 24hrs.
•
ACCOUNTS OFFICER - FINANCE| 12/2016  to 12/2017
Ibis Styles Hotel Airport Accra - Accra
Played a key role in account reconciliation, identifying and rectifying discrepancies to maintain
accurate financial records.
•
Assisted in managing cash flow by closely monitoring incoming and outgoing payments, supporting
efficient fund utilization.
•
Checked monthly bank statements against account information to identify and resolve discrepancies.•
Achievements:
Issued invoices to customers.•
Investigated and resolved discrepancies during account reconciliation process.•
Prepared and submitted quarterly and yearly tax forms and returns.•
Processed daily invoices and payments to keep accounting records current.•
Monitored customer details for non payments, delayed payments and other irregularities.•
Assisted in preparing annual budget and monthly stock taking.•
Retrieved 80% of Withholding tax certificates which helped in reducing company's cooperate Tax
liabilities.
•
Ensured our customers received invoices immediately after work is completed.•
Collaborated with purchasing department to reconcile vendor invoices and facilitate payments.•
Checked expenses against budget controls, entered figures and reconciled business accounts to
address discrepancies.
•
CUSTOMER SERVICE OFFICER/OPERATIONS| 04/2016 to 11/2016
Bayport Financial Services - Accra, Ghana
Resolved customer inquiries, complaints and issues and used problem solving techniques to provide
solutions.
•
Prepared order sheets and sent out invoices and statements for payments due.•
Negotiated payment arrangements with customers who had delinquent loans.•
Explained to customers the different type of loans and credit options that are available as well as the
terms of those loans.
•
Responded to customer calls and emails to answer questions about products and services.•
Managed over 50 customer calls per day.•
ACCOUNTS ASSISTANT| 09/2011 to 03/2016
University of Ghana
Assisted in preparing annual budget and expenditure analysis.•
Received and verified employees' expense reports to cut expense reimbursements.•
Investigated and resolved discrepancies during account reconciliation process.•
Prepared monthly bank Reconciliation Statement and Withholding tax.•
EDUCATION
Codetrain Ghana - East Legon, Accra| Certificate
Software Development, 10/2022
University of Professional Studies Accra - Accra| Bachelor of Science
Accounting, 08/2014
University of Ghana - Legon,Accra| Diploma
Accounting, 11/2011
Angel Educational Complex - Kumasi, Ghana| High School Diploma
05/2008
FOOTBALL & MUSIC
English
